at the time. Such, gentlemen, is the inflexibility of sea-
at the time. Such, gentlemen, is the inflexibility of sea-
usages and the instinctive love of neatness in seamen ; 
some of whom would not willingly drown without first 
washing their faces. But in all vessels this broom business 
is the prescriptive province of the boys, if boys there be 
aboard. Besides, it was the stronger men in the Town-Ho 
that had been divided into gangs, taking turns at the 
pumps ; and being the most athletic seaman of them all, 
Steelkilt had been regularly assigned captain of one of 
the gangs ; consequently he should have been freed from 
any trivial business not connected with truly nautical 
duties, such being the case with his comrades. I mention 
all these particulars so that you may understand exactly 
how this affair stood between the two men. 

' But there was more than this : the order about the 
shovel was almost as plainly meant to sting and insult
shovel was almost as plainly meant to sting and insult
Steelkilt, as though Radney had spat in his face. Any 
man who has gone sailor in a whale-ship will understand 
this ; and all this and doubtless much more, the Lakeman 
fully comprehended when the mate uttered his command. 
But as he sat still for a moment, and as he steadfastly 
looked into the mate's malignant eye and perceived the 
stacks of powder-casks heaped up in him and the slow- 
match silently burning along toward them ; as he in- 
stinctively saw all this, that strange forbearance and un- 
willingness to stir up the deeper passionateness in any 
already ireful being a repugnance most felt, when felt 
at all, by really valiant men even when aggrieved this 
nameless phantom feeling, gentlemen, stole over Steelkilt.
nameless phantom feeling, gentlemen, stole over Steelkilt.